# Code Notes for Artist Bot
## Poetry Explanation


- `pyproject.toml`: Contains all settings and dependencies of the project
- `poetry.lock`: Store dependencies. Used to install dependencies using `poetry install` (Can be replaced when using `venv` with a `requirements.txt` and install it with `pip install -r requirements.txt`)
- `.env`: Contains environment variables
	- e.g.: Tokens, Secret Keys, etc...
- `artist_bot/__init__.py`: Tells python that the current folder is a python module

## artist_bot/bot.py: Main Function of the project

#### L12-26: Initializations

- `load_dotenv()`: Load `.env` variables in the python environment
- `guild_id`: ID of the Test Server
- `intents = discord.Intents().all()`: Enable all Intents. creates an object representing all permissions the bot can have. It's necessary for certain functionalities like tracking messages or server member activities...
	- **intents**: Intents are a Discord feature that allows you to control the types of events your bot can see and interact with. They're part of Discord's effort to improve bot security and efficiency. By using intents, you're essentially filtering the information your bot receives from Discord's servers.
		- **type of intents**: There are various types of intents, like guild (server) messages, direct messages, guild member updates, and more.
		- Setting intents:
			- `intents.message_content = True`
			- `intents.members = True`
			- `intents.guilds = True`
- `bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix='!', intents=intents)`: creates a new bot instance with a command prefix `!`, so it responds to commands starting with `!`.
- `client = discord.Client(intents=intents)`: is a client connection that connects to Discord. It's used here with the same intents as the bot.
- `tree = discord.app_commands.CommandTree(client)`: is used for handling slash commands (`/`) in Discord.

#### L30-32: **Bot Event - on_ready:**

```python
@bot.event
async def on_ready():
    ...
```

Defines an asynchronous event (`async`) that occurs when the bot has successfully connected to Discord. It prints the bot's username and attempts to sync commands with a specific guild.

#### L40-48: **Slash Commands:**
```python
@bot.tree.command(...) # defines the async function as a slash command
async def ping(interaction: discord.Interaction): # always takes minimum an interaction as input
    ...
```

A command to test the bot's responsiveness. It replies with "Pong" and the bot's latency.

```python
@bot.tree.command(...)
async def youtube(interaction: discord.Interaction, artist_name: str): # can take a string input as argument
    ...
```

A command to fetch the latest videos from an artist on YouTube.

#### Running the bot:

```python
bot.run(os.getenv('BOT_TOKEN'))
```

Starts the bot using the token stored in the environment variables.